       CSC 427 Numerical Analysis
Numerical Methods: Algorithms used to obtain numerical solutions of a mathematical problem.
Analytical Methods: Using the exact formula to present solutions to a mathematical problem.
Not all equations have an exact or fixed formulars, so algorithms can be developed to determine its solution.
Numerical Methods can be used when…
1. Analytical solutions are difficult to obtain or difficult to practice.
2. Analytical solutions do not exist for that problem.
Basic Needs in numerical analysis
1. Practical: Can easily be computed in a reasonable amount of time.
2. Accurate: Should be close(approximate) to it’s true value.
3. Information about the approximate error. (Should be able to determine the margin of error or deviation from its true value).

Some simple Non-linear equation can be solved using the quadratic formula (Almighty formula)
	x=(-b±?(b^2-4ac))/2a
	
	Ex of simple non-linear equation is x2 + 4x + 3 = 0
Some have no analytical solutions
Ex.


There is no exact formula that can be used to solve such equation, numerical methods must be used in this situation.

There are three methods for solving such Non-linear equations
1. Bisection Method
2. Newton-Raphson Method
3. Secant Method
	We can also see that although it is much easier to solve linear equations with analytical 	solutions, problem arise when we have more than two unknown variables and when we 	have a thousand unknown variables, it becomes a challenge.	
       
Just from reasoning, Cramer’s rule will obviously not be able to support large problems.
There are three methods for solving Linear equations.
1. Naïve Guassian Elimination.
2. Guassian Elimination with Scaled Partial Pivoting.
3. Algorithm for Tri-diagonal equations.



Curve Fitting
	It means constructing a curve that best fits the data points.

Data on the left, the line/curve on the right
Curve fitting also means showing the relationship between two variables
(in this case x and y) constructing a curve that fits the data.

Interpolation
	*Using known values to determine unknown ones that fall between*
	Process of estimating unknown values that fall between known values.

Method of Curve Fitting
1. Least Square Method
1. Linear Regression
2. Non Linear Least Square Problems
		2.  Interpolation
 			1. Newton Polynomial Interpolation
			2. Lagrange Interpolation

	Integration
		Summing up parts of a function to find the whole.
			Some functions can be solved analytically	
				

	Methods of Numerical Integration
1. Upper and Lower Sums
2. Trapezoid Method
3. Romberg Method
4. Gauss Quadrature


Look Into Ordinary Differentiation and Partial Differentiation a little



Chapter 2:

Number Representation
	Real Numbers:  Any number that can be plotted on the number line
		All numbers are real numbers
		
	Types of real Numbers
		Rational Numbers
		Irrational Numbers


Fresh Reminder
1. Natural Numbers --- 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 ….. 
Zero, negative and decimal numbers are not natural 
Numbers.

2. Whole Numbers--- They are natural numbers but zero is 
Included. 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 ….
3. Integers --- Also include negative natural numbers
 			-3, -2, -1, 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, ….

4. Rational numbers: Includes all integers as well fractions and decimals 
			that can be expressed as fractions. That means
			the numerator and denominator of the fraction 
   must be integers and the denominator are not 0.
   Ex. 2/3, 3.12, 0.4, -5/8
   
   Integers, whole numbers and Natural numbers are all natural numbers.
   
5. Irrational numbers:  Never ending set of numbers that don’t repeat with a constant decimal. Ex. ?, ?2, ?3, ?5
   



SELF EXPLANATORY


Some numbers that can be represented in one binary system can be infinite and difficult to represent in another binary system.
1.1 in base 10 gives an infinite value in base 2.

